Code for Eco-Tierra project, as reported in the following papers:



Russell K. Standish, (2001). "Open-ended artificial evolution" in
Proceedings ALife Workshop, Adelaide, Dec. 2001.

Standish, R.K. (1999) ``Some Techniques for the Measurement of
Complexity in Tierra'', Advances in Artificial Life, Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, 1674, 104 (Springer: Berlin)

Standish, R.K. (1997) ``Embryology in Tierra: A study of a genotype to
phenotype map'', Complexity International , 4.

Standish, R.K. (1997) ``On an Efficient Implemenation of Tierra'',
Complexity International , 4

BUILDING:
	This release requires Ecolab 4.D22 to be installed first see
http://ecolab.sourceforge.net. 

Do a make (requires GNU Make). 

Various scripts are used (bash, TCL and perl) for various tasks. All
TCL files use the etierra interpreter built with the make command.

PREPARATION:

* Run Tierra, which generates genebanker file *.gen in gb0 (or wherever)
* Use the arg1 program to unpack .gen files into source files located in
the src directory - see setup.sh
* Create databases using setup.tcl
* Create extinction database by running 
   perl anal-tierra-bd.pl gb0/break.? gb0/break.?? gb0/break.???
 - note the use of ? rather than * to feed the files in correct order.


CREATING LIST OF PHENOTYPES
  * details.tcl: use details-submit.tcl to spread over multiple CPUs
  on a PBS queueing system
  * use merge or BDBmerge to merge results databases to results (if
  computation split)
  * rem-neutrals.tcl produces unique-orgs and neutdb
  * neutclass.tcl dumps out a genotype to phenotype map for use with
  Bedau stats

ANALYSIS SCRIPTS
  * ss-complexity.tcl single site complexity measure
  * complexity.tcl foodweb complexity timeseries
  * neut-prop.tcl proportion of neutral mutations, used in the missing
  neutrality work
  * plot-foodwebs.tcl graphical display of foodwebs
  * bedau.pl produces Bedau-Packard timeseries stats using break
  files. Use as 
     perl bedau.pl gb0/break.? gb0/break.?? ...


DATABASES:

Databases with be Berkley DB is you have installed this, otherwise DBM
(or gdbm) format. BDB has better scalability than gdbm, which in turn
is better than DBM.

tierra-orgs - database of organisms genomes created by a Tierra run

torg_headers - the headers of the Tierra genome source files

src/ directory. Created from Tierra genebanker utility using the
Tierra "arg" utility. Converted to tierra-orgs and torg_headers by the setup.tcl script.

createdb - plain text file listing genotypes and the creation time of
the organism.

unique-orgs - plain text file consisting of the phenotypic
archetypes. It is labeled by the first genotype of that phenotype to
appear in the genebank record. Creation time and number of neutral
equivalents are recorded as the second and third field. .pag and .dir
files are symbolic links to tierra-orgs DBM files. Created by "rem-neutrals".

results - results of the minitierra tournaments stored pairwise for
each organism in tierra-orgs. Only interacting pairs are
stored. Created by the "details" program.

neutdb - database of neutrally equivalent genotypes indexed by
phenotype. Created by "rem-neutrals".

PROGRAMS:

dumpdb, loaddb: create flat file representation from dbm file, and the
reverse operation. Useful for porting DBM files between different
computers. Obsoleted by use of Berkley DB.

merge, BDBmerge: merge multiple databases to a single database. merfge
operates on DBM format, BDBmerg on Berkley DB format.

convtoBDB: convert DBM files to BDB format.

etierra: Main Ecolab interpreter used to implement most of the
eco-tierra functionality. See TCL scripts for usage.

